Okay, this is an interview with Louis Pierre
Phaneuf by Michelle Duran in his home in Kingwood,
Texas, concerning the Vietnam War. In the
interest of accumulating knowledge about the
war, I am going to donate this tape to the Texas A&M
Oral History Collection in the University
Archives. Is that all right with you? Yes, that
will be fine. Okay. Okay, first of all, when and
where were you born, if you don't mind? I was born in
Lynn, Massachusetts in August of 1944. Okay, what
about your education? Did you go to college before
you went? No, I went to high school and I had one
semester of college and then I dropped out. So, why
did you join the military? Okay, well, after I got
out of college, then I went to work for General
Electric Company. And then because of, at that
time, we still had a draft in place, and it was just
obvious that I was going to be drafted, so I thought
I'd go into the service of my choice rather than the
government's. So I chose the United States Air
Force. When did you join? In August of 1964. Okay.
All right, so what about your training? Where did
you train? Okay, well, everybody at that time in
the Air Force went to basic training at Likeland
Air Force Base in San Antonio. Then after I got out
of there, I went to Shepard Air Force Base up at,
where that was. I was up in the Panhandle of Texas,
and there was a tech school up there for jet engine
maintenance. The reason I chose that was when I was
working with General Electric, I was working on
military jet engines with General Electric, so I
thought it would be easy to pursue that within the
Air Force. So I went to a technical school up there
for that. And after that, I went to a pilot training
base in Big Spring, Texas. So, and when I was over
there, I was there for about 10 months, and at that
time I just became dissatisfied with that
particular part of the country, and I wanted to see
more of the world and everything. I chose to
volunteer for Vietnam and go over there in a
special group. So that's how I ended up over there.
Before going over there, I went to Florida for
special training. Hi. Okay, so where did you get
sent in Vietnam? Okay, we were stationed at Cam
Ranh Bay, Vietnam, which is basically in the
central coastal region of Vietnam. And when I was
in, prior to going over, I went to Florida, like I
said, with a special train to work with the Army, it
was going to be a Joint Forces Army Air Force Strike
Command as well, where the Air Force would go with
the Army on certain missions and help provide
close air support. In other words, it was a
complete change of what I was doing in the Air Force
to going with this special
group. The ground forces in place? Okay, what did
you think you were getting yourself into? Did you
have any idea? Oh, yeah. I was pretty much aware of
what was going to be involved as far as what we were
going to be doing over there. Of course, I don't
think anybody has a real feeling for what it's
going to be like until you really get there and see
it. And that's the way it has a real impact on you
once you are there and see just how it can be. So did
they give you any special training and stuff
before you went, as far as your job and as far as,
say, the people and the culture went? Yeah, a
little bit of, I mean, we had a lot of special
training as far as the job, what we'd be doing. Like
I said, that was for six weeks in Florida. We did get
some books on the culture and how the people were
and what to expect, but not any real elaborate
training as to what to expect from the people.
Yeah, so you were kind of surprised that you didn't
know much about what to expect. Right. Any
language training? No, not in our group. We had
several people that were assigned to our group
that had already been over there and had had, they
were, you know, proficient in the language. Yeah.
But I didn't have any. Okay, so tell me a little bit
about what your job was, what your company did.
Okay, it was to go out with the Army when they went
out on a mission, search and destroy something,
and if they were to come in contact with enemy
forces, to call in close air support to protect our
troops so that they couldn't be overrun or even
help. Okay. Did you
ever get in any big major operations? Well, not
probably what they're following some of the
bigger operations. There was nothing to do with,
you know, getting what they call a firefighter or
something, being in close contact with enemy
forces. So did you, you had a gun and you fought
back? Yeah, it was strictly, my role was really a
defensive type role. In other words, it was there
to, I was not, what you'd say, a true combat
soldier, much like the Army and Marines, where
mine would just be a defensive to so that we could
provide close air support for them.
But what we got into a lot of actual combat
situations with the Army forces. So what kind of
support did you call in? It was F4C, Phantom Jets.
They could drop bombs around the area on Napalm.
you know to drive off the enemy forces how did you
decide which one to bring in or did you choose or no
well usually you before you went out they would
tell you what um we know which squadrons would be
available and where they were in approximately
the time it would take for them to respond to get to
you depending on how far away from those major
bases you were operating and uh as far as not
choosing weapons was just bombs, basically.
Someone had napalm in those squadrons. And they
had what they called cannons, which were, you
know, like a machine gun type thing. Well, um...
Okay, let's talk about... What was a typical day
like? I mean, your strategy was search and
destroy. I mean, you went out on missions looking
for... There was the Army's purpose over there. In
other words, most of the time when we went on
operation, we would be airlifted by helicopter to
a specific area. A lot of times we would be
operating with other units. In other words, they
would pick up in a certain area where they felt
there might be a heavy concentration of enemy
forces and they would be trying to either you know,
to circle them or to drive them off. And there may be
other units being placed strategically in other
areas on a, you know, or they would have a big
overall map and they would be placed and try to all
be coming together, going through a valley, you
know, you'd be on one side, they'd be on the other,
and trying to come in contact with them. And so once
you make contact with the enemy, That's when we
were calling them. You know, we tried to identify
where their positions were and calling the air
strikes on them. Did you ever land in a hot LZ, as
they said? Yeah, there was one time that we
actually went in a hot LZ. What was it like? Well,
it's, I mean, that's probably, it's just so, you
know, very scary because you just don't know where
anything's coming from. Yeah. So it's, the whole
thing is just so much confusing. And we actually
got into a coma situation, and that's the thing
that struck me the most, was the chaos and the
confusion that's around me, and everything
happening so quickly. Yeah, okay. Did you ever
have any contact with ARVN?
Yeah, we had several times there would be some ARVN
troops with us. So what were your feelings about
them? Were they confident? No, I have probably
real strong negative feelings about them and how
they operated. We were there to do all the work, and
they would bring them in at times just to be there
for the operations so that they could kind of get
the publicity and credit for some of the
operations. But I think there was a lot of
corruption, and that there was The officers, it
was very class-oriented over there that the
people that had any money in the world to do those
were all the officers. And the soldiers were just
the poor people of the nation that were just put in
there where they wanted to be alive. Yeah. So were
there many cases where you and the flight guard
would run? No, we had one situation where we were
resupplying a on our base, and we were given some
supplies, and this was on what they call C-130s.
It's a cargo type aircraft, and we had several
trying to get on the planes to get out with us after
we dropped off the supplies, trying to leave.
And just in general, anything I saw with them, I
just wasn't impressed with them. They were solely
relying on us and everything that the United
States would do. They weren't really doing their
fair share. It was their own country. They weren't
going to do much about it. They weren't any match
for the D.C. or for the NBA regular season? No, not
in my opinion. But, I mean, we didn't have that much
contact with them on a regular basis, but a few
times I did see them, but it was not the best we did.
Yeah, okay. What about the Vietnamese people? Did
you have a lot of contact with them at all? Yeah,
several times you'd go into villages and stuff,
and that's the thing I think you wonder about most
is that They're just in the middle of it. It would be
like being here in Kingwood and having troops
coming through at any given time. They're just
basic villagers and stuff that want to go on with
their daily life. When you went through
these villages,
did
you Did you leave them intact, the group you were
with, or did you go through it? No, typically we
would just try to clear the area, what they call a
secure area, for the people that were there. And
not, we weren't involved in any of that. Yeah. Some
of the stuff you can see right here. Were you aware
of, or in the area that you were in, a lot of times
during the day the area was secure for the United
States, and at night the D.C. would come through?
Right, yeah. So did that happen a lot in the area you
were in? That's what we hear. I mean, at times, you
know, the area would be an unsecured area, and
that's basically what meant that, you know, it
could be... you know, be fine during the day, in
daylight hours and stuff. And when we went there,
we'd see what we infiltrated there, you know, just
like we were during the daytime. So there was
supposedly a lot of that in different areas, too.
So do you think that the basic common village are
just put up with whatever was there? Right. I think
they tolerated it. It was just a matter of
survival. I mean, they didn't feel like it was to
their benefit to, you know, resist those via
comms. organized. Obviously, they resisted the
U.S. and I think that's what led to some of the
complete destruction of the villages. You know,
they were just trying to get along with it and go
along with their life. And I think the same thing
would happen to them if they had resisted Vietnam.
And they would probably just do the same thing,
destroy the village, just totally start it.
Anyway, as it happened, it was just people that
were just trying to hopefully have those boats
that people would pass through and they would be
left alone. Yeah, yeah. In the time that you were
there, were they still trying the pacification
program at all? Were they still doing the win the
hearts and the minds of the people? Yeah, I guess
there was some of it going on. And I think that's
where at times they were trying to get the South
Vietnamese out more involved to look, you know, at
least look like they were. being
active in the war for
their
own country.
What about the leadership that you had? Were they
qualified? Oh yeah, I feel it. I'm military. Yeah,
I'm military. Oh yeah, I dig it. The groups that I
was in, where I was being qualified, we had a lot of
specialized training. It was kind of a
specialized group. So I think everybody felt
confident in the troops that we had when we went on
an operation. You know, well-prepared, had a lot
of backup. Right. So you, so your group wasn't, you
didn't get fresh troops 17, 18 years old right out,
right out of base? No. I mean, I was, I guess I was 21
when I went there. I mean, we had some young people
in it, but once they were, once we were in our group,
it was, you know, well-trained and
well-organized and, you know, we had a lot of
support, so. Okay. So there was no problems with, a
lot of times you hear problems about the careerism
of the officers? just, you know, trying to get
their stamp on their record that they were in
combat and leave? No, I don't, I mean, I, you know,
we didn't really see that, uh, that, you know, I
don't feel like there's really anything going on
out there. Okay. Um, what about drugs? Were they
there? Were they around? Well, yeah, they were. I
guess, um, one thing that, um, Again, because of
our, I think our group was somewhat specialized in
that there was, nobody would tolerate the use of
drugs within our group. And I think prior to going
over, everybody that was selected probably was,
probably had been screened to one way or another
that there wouldn't be any potheads and dopeheads
in our outfit. And because I think everybody felt
that it was highly important that you couldn't
have that type of person in our group. Yeah, we
always heard that there was a lot of drugs and stuff
going on, but it wouldn't have been tolerated in
our group. Anybody that didn't have it or was
suspected of it would have been sent out of our
group to another group because we just felt it was
too important to make sure that everybody was
operating like a full bag. Okay. So we didn't have
any problems with that out there. So do you know
anybody that had fun with the actual drugs? Not
personally, just other than what you hear and see.
But we didn't have any of it. Okay. Well, since you
were in the special joint team, how was it
commanded? Was it under Air Force or was it under
the Army? It was under the Army because it was under
the Air Force Strike Command, but it wasn't under
operation without us there and support groups. So
you followed the leadership of the Army and did
what they did. Okay. Okay. You were there until
October of 67, right? Right. Okay. So you were
there a few months before Tet. Right. Did you see
any of that coming?
No. No. I think everything, you know, you kind of
operate as a smaller unit and really don't have a
feel for what's going on in the big picture of, you
know, different parts of the country and such.
Yeah. So when you came back, how was it? How were you
greeted? How were people treating you then? Well,
it's funny. The day I came back, there was some type
of protest where people, I don't know, something
with a driver on them, a driver with headlights on,
protesting. I don't know what the exact protest of
that particular war was. I mean, on that day, it
was, I mean, it was still a... protesting and a lot,
you know, it hadn't really, um, escalated into,
you know, this was 1967. I think that was probably
the earlier time the protests were starting to
escalate and get, you know, really, you know, more
and more involved with students becoming more and
more involved later on. Um, in general, I mean, it
was just good driving back, you know, just That's
the one thing that was kind of frustrating, that
you just left, you put in your time, and then you
left, and nothing over there happened.
accomplished or finalized and just put your time
in so now you could leave. That was some of the
frustrations, just leaving everything behind
and the people that you knew and the villages that
you knew. But in the United States, like I say,
you're just glad to be back. There was no big thing
about it, whether you had been there or not there. I
guess everybody, everything was kind of low key.
We just didn't talk much about it. Okay. Well, what
was your opinion then on the years for the duty
commandment? Well, overall, I guess, I felt that
it helped our troops more than anything. I mean,
the overall, whether it helped the troops or not,
situation I know, but looking back it probably
didn't have that much of an impact, but I mean as our
group, I think we helped in helping our own
soldiers to survive and such, but whether or not it
really had an impact didn't do much for their
country in the war. It probably didn't make much
difference either way. We just, we had the film,
and I'm just sure it helped support our fighting
troops. So was your group fluid at all? I mean, did
you receive people? In the middle, I mean, you
know, did your group go as a group and stay at home,
or were you constantly receiving
reinforcements? Yeah, well, our group did, our
Air Force group did, and then we would operate with
other Army troops. At times, you didn't always
operate with the exact same Army forces, so that
you saw some of the turnover of troops coming in and
going out, you know, when they went on an
operation. The troops that had been here a long
time, it was obvious. You could tell who had been
here a while and who was new. But, you know, we as a
whole stayed together. But we operated with
different, some of the newer groups. So we saw some
of the rotation
of the troops. So was that bad? Not especially so.
Um... So did you ever get involved in any way with
any anti-war things? No,
no. Did you ever become something? No, no, no. Why
do you think that's people that did, people that
protested the war? At the time, I was very, you
know, very hostile, you know, not aggressive
towards anybody. I felt angry towards them and
everything. But then as I, you know, looking back
and stuff, I think they... probably had just as
much right and probably maybe even a little more
knowledgeable about what was going on over there
and obviously You know, they had their own
opinions about it. They didn't feel that it was the
best war. Yeah. So I don't have any hard feelings
towards them now at all. Well, that's my one thing,
by the way. She didn't bother me at the time. I mean,
you know, she had her feelings about it and
expressed her feelings about it. And the war did
end up being just a political, you know, disaster
over there anyways. I mean, if we really didn't go
in here militarily to do what we were supposed to do
and had those objectives, I think we could have won
the war. We kept it a free country, but I think, you
know, people are, I don't know, while you're not, I
guess you're still not truly free people. I don't
know if they're better off, but at least there's
not a major war going on in the U.S., so you wonder
maybe they are better off without all that
conflict on a day-to-day basis going on. So did you
know anybody that was, that they ran to him? No. How
do you know people that did that? Well, again, I
guess the main thing would be you'd have to know
what their true convictions were if they really
were just doing it to you. dogs to the draft because
they didn't want to, you know, defend their
country and stand up for the rights of their
country. You know, I think that they probably
themselves feel bad about it, but if they really
believed in why they were going, and they didn't
want to get in that war, but it was because they
didn't feel that that war wasn't right, you know,
from an overall perspective that, you know, they
probably feel just the same as we do about the way
I've helped them, you know, for not being drawn
into that thing. And, you know, as long as they're,
they would have to know what their true
convictions of why they left the country. But I
don't have any, you know, hard feelings towards
anybody that did it. Everybody had to make their
own decision to do what they wanted to do. Yeah, I
mean, I think he's the one who has to live with it. He
probably was just dodging the draft because he
didn't want to get involved and had the money and
the power to do that. But, I mean, there's plenty of
that going on here and just like I'm sure what's
going on here. I mean, I think that's what...
Overall, I'm so
weak. On a personal basis, it doesn't matter
because they're the ones that have to live with it.
I did what I did to feel comfortable with it for the
reasons that I wanted to. I thought I was helping
those people and able to help our own students. I
feel good about what I did. Okay. Well, in your
opinion, do you think that we could have won the
war? Oh, yeah. Militarily, I definitely think we
could have won the war. I got so bogged down in the
politics of the war. There was a lot of rules and
stuff going on over there that you couldn't do
this. You couldn't bomb the planes. The North
Vietnamese planes that were on the ground in North
Vietnam, they had to be fine. You couldn't go into
this area. You couldn't go into that area. So, and I
mean, when you think of the, I mean, you'd have, as
you study, then you'll see the type of equipment
and the forces that we have, just with the air
power, all the helicopters,
you know, the technology that we have and these
people are running, you know, weapons down on, you
know, old bicycles and everything. There's no way
that they should have been able to win that war. But
militarily, to win that, it probably would have
caused so much more destruction. And to have
people that didn't have, you know, I don't know how
to evaluate whether it was or not, but I think, you
know, if it was just a true military war, we
definitely should have and could have won the war.
So, who do you blame for not letting people and the
politicians win? Yes. For not letting the
military fight the war? Right, I think they're all
government people that were looking out for their
best interests. and letting it drag on as long as it
did. I think that's what finally got all the
students where they got involved and felt that it
was a useless effort and it shouldn't be
continued. And I think at that point they were
right. You know, if we weren't going to do it, then
we ought to get out of there, not just let it be a have
a PMS one, I think, in the late 60s, early 70s, why
they're having so much morale involved with our
own troops, because there was so much conflict
here about it, and they were going over, you know,
people don't want to die for something they felt
was a useless cause at that time. That was a lot of,
you know, 66, when I first went over, so it was, you
know, there was still a lot of people felt it was a
worthwhile effort to help that country. That was a
real dinner. Helped those people win freedom. So
was there a time when you thought that maybe What
you were doing wasn't helping the people? Maybe
you shouldn't have been there? Not while I was in
the service. After, later on, you had some doubts
that, not so much that you shouldn't have been
there, but that you were used by the government for
their own use. That you weren't really, couldn't
accomplish what you really tried to do there for.
You don't want to handle all those second thoughts
that are no longer in the military. So you never
went through any period where you didn't want to be
there, you didn't, I mean... Right, I mean, not,
uh, not even for a time because I wanted to do it just
because it was so scary, but, uh, not from, uh...
Uh, moral or, uh... Right. Yeah. We still have that
conviction that we were there for a good purpose
and that we were doing something. How do you think
we could have gone to war? What should we have done?
I would say, I guess, just that we would have had to
have been more forceful in the use of our weapons
and just could have really, you know, probably
with more direct attacks on North Vietnam
and on their leaders. I just think that had we built
up even quicker and more rapidly and stronger
earlier in the war, we could have brought that to a
later finish sooner. So what you were doing, was it
working? Could you see progress? Yeah, I would say
that what we were there for as a group that I was with
It was to protect our own forces so that they
couldn't be overrun. And obviously, the fact that
I came back with one on one because we never. So I
would say that the purpose of our outfit, what we
were doing was successful. And that's why I feel
good about it because I felt that we accomplished
what we were there for, was to protect us. Like I
said, it was a defensive, to protect our own
troops. Did you ever lose anybody any time during
that? Well, yeah, we, I mean, we had casualties,
but then our outfits obviously gone during some
conflict, so, you know, we just
lost people. Were you ever hit? No,
unfortunately, as far as, you know, see somebody,
when somebody does die, it's, that's, you see it.
Do you think then that rolling thunder was
anything that was working, bombing North
Vietnam? Maybe we should have done more, not
restricted maybe? Yeah, I think more. I think that
would have brought the war home more to them. That
would have caused some turmoil within their
country. They could get the war over, possibly
forever, or... about after Tet? A lot of people
have said that maybe if we had hit them right after
Tet when they were weak, maybe we could have won.
What do you think? I guess that there's probably
some validity to that. And, you know, we, like I
said, militarily, I think we had the power to do
pretty much what we wanted to had we used our
forces, you know, stronger in places. were
we not using our technology to our advantage
So in your opinion, do you think we should have been
there? I mean, we were right, our original way
anyway. I think our original thing was stopping
the flow of communism and keeping our country free
and letting them be the choice. I mean, we were
there supposedly as a support group for their
forces to defend themselves. But it slowly turned
to where they were just letting us do all the
fighting and they wanted us to win the war for them.
And so I think there was a lot of their own internal
problems that they didn't have the true
commitment to the war that would have been
required for a country to win its own war. That,
along with the political thing that our
government was pointing at, was the overall
reason for our failure. So was there a point when
you saw the tide change and you thought that maybe
we should have gotten out? I think it was not a, I
don't know, to me it seems a certain point. Because
you were there, and you just put in your time, and
then you leave, and of course, like I mentioned
earlier, that's the frustration there, that
you're glad to leave, but you wonder about, you
have, you know, you wonder about the people that
you've left behind, the villages that you've got
to go, and, you know, whatever happens to them. So
there's frustration happening. No, I didn't see
any specific point where I felt it would change. It
was more seeing it as being involved here in the
United States with the dissension within the
United States, because that built, that would
have to build that swing that all the people hit,
that by the end of the year, you know, the people
that had, you know, family and friends and
relatives being killed, and I just felt as if to see
it continuing on, that it wouldn't, you know, win
cars. And so, to me, I just heard it as a slow,
gradual, When
you
were there, did you ever get any feelings that you
weren't, the people back home weren't supporting
you? Were you aware of any of that stuff, any
anti-war things then? It was still early. Yeah, it
was still early. At that time, I guess I just
perceived it as those were the people that didn't
want to deal with the military and fight. I mean,
that's probably how I perceived it at that time.
And it wasn't really as much of a... an anti-war
movement. Those were people that just didn't want
to go to the law and use that as a front. I'm sure
there was some of that, but like I said, I don't
really know what the person's true convictions
are, whether or not they were anti-war or just
against themselves going over there. Okay, we've
talked a lot in my class about movies and things.
Are there any movies that you've seen in Vietnam
about Vietnam that are realistic that even come
close to one? Well, I guess in general, some of
them, all of them that I've seen have some parts
that are pretty realistic and some unrealistic.
So it's hard to say in particular what we've done.
There were parts in pop films now that I've shot
that were very
realistic. I haven't seen full metal jacks.
I haven't seen full metal jacks, but you can put
some apocalypse now. There's some parts that are
very realistic in here. And there were some things
that were We had in the war that a lot of people might
see it and not be able to perceive it as being
realistic. It was the way you went in and out of the
war so quickly with these helicopters. in
Desjardins situation and then right away we'd be
back out and back to our main base in Hemero. I
didn't want to be too long on the compass. I'm
hoping it still was a military base in a war zone,
but we were withdrawn from the media turmoil quite
quickly. So it was that off and on type thing. Did
you ever know anybody that, as they say, went
native? Not, not, didn't see that coming.
Um, yeah.
Can you tell us more about, uh, well just, just
what, what you did, I mean. In your growth, I mean,
you could just spend all, you'd be helicoptered
into an area. And from there, what do you do? Well,
then you just, before you went out, you wouldn't do
it with a, you'd have a, you know, they'd bring
everybody in and tell them what the purpose of the
operation was and how they expected it to go and
what they... What was
available
to us?
to accomplish that, what our units were, what our
military were operating in the area, what the
overall purpose of that particular operation
was. And then they would just go out and fly into
this area. And the Army, like I say, they were the
ones that were actually doing the operation.
They,
you know, helped us through an area that they were
trying to secure or declare. And what they were,
what the particular purpose of that operation
was, you know, we would just be with them. And, uh,
he worked many times and we didn't make any contact
with the army. So it was just, you know, I mean, you
would be out and nothing would basically happen on
the, you know, all of us. When we did come in contact
with them, that's when we, through radio contact
with our own air forces, more than strikes at
different areas around us to both cut off the enemy
from escaping and try to You know, you
would notify the other units that where they were
operating, sometimes they would be able to come
where they were because of the distance involved
and brought into a strategic flanking of them, you
know, trying to serve one way or another. So, you
know, it was just... you know, basic military
operations. The purpose was we would just be
operating with the Army. And then when we came
under fire, we would be strictly defensive under
fire, you know, hopefully help hold back the Tide
and the forces with the court and the S-Rates with
the down route to accomplish
defensive defenses like that. Okay, so how often
did you run into these? Probably
one out of three or four times. That one would go
out. Maybe one out of three or four times. Because I
think most of the time that we were pursuing work,
they were trying to be evasive and they were not one
of them. take us on, take on our groups, because I
think they most likely are the forces that they
have. So I mean, we would probably try and always be
after the groups that were the guerrilla-type
warfare in the Viet Cong. We would never pursue the
North Vietnamese armed regularcy. There was only
one operation of ours that wouldn't fail. I mean,
in our briefings, we were told that it was going to
be in use. Most of the time, we were after guerrilla
warfare, you know, re-economy type. And so, I
think they, most of the time, they would try to
evade us. So, they didn't, it wasn't like you were
put in, you were being directed. conflict with
them because they were trying to, once they saw the
type of operation, and they could tell just by the
number of helicopters coming in and all the forces
being put into an area that it was obvious to them
that we were there trying to get to them. So they
would usually try to evade us. The only time we came
in conflict with them was when they would be cut off
with the other troops that were being put in and
they had to fight them. So that's, I'd say it was
probably one out of three to four operations,
actually getting direct fire from them. How many
would you usually encounter at home? There's
probably 50 to 100, you know, best guess. Yeah, so
you didn't fight any of the area, it was just, just,
were the people you were participating in, were
they young? Uh, yeah, they were, yeah. Did you make
some villagers with guns, or? Oh, yeah, they all
had, yeah. But they, they were big on, you know,
after you went into an area for the, and sweeped the
area under, and sweeped the area for the body count
and things. militarily that they were looking
for, that was something they felt was something
they could report back to the politicians and
everything for their support. So they were all
young. They all looked real young. What kind of
weapons did they have? Most of them had
Russian-made weapons, 1847.
the strikes that you called in, were they always
accurate and on target? Anybody ever miss? Well,
we had a way to call them in and kind of we were
testing their accuracy so that we would block them
in. given it my area and slowly get it closer to us
rather than come some, until you felt comfortable
with the, if it was a, with a, you know, a route that
you had never had supported before, if you really
didn't feel comfortable with it, depending on
what type of area, where you were, whether it's in a
valley or whatever, you might have even an area
just kind of tested them to see how accurate they
were. I would have them call in a close one, try to
find some real close air support if you didn't feel
comfortable in the kitchen. So they were all
really accurate, and once in a while if they
missed, they missed on the other, in the opposite
direction. Okay, so how often did the group that
you were with accomplished their goals as far as,
you know, say one out of every three or four times
you met the enemy did, how many, what was your
average body count or kill ratio?
Probably,
uh, 10 to 20 people. Oh. If you,
uh, yeah, it'd probably be an average of 10 to 20.
So, um, But we had, I mean, we were fortunate that we
had a lot of what we call slack time, you know, back
at a main, at a main base here or there. We'd go back
to a main base and, you know, not have an awful lot to
do compared to, you know, ground with great tight
combat troops. We may have been out there for days
on end. They might, you know, we had some pretty
good main bases to pull back to. So were most of your
operations just on a daily basis, just for the day?
Yeah, they were what they call sweeps, you know,
sweeps and operations. Was the big base ever
attacked while you were there? Yeah, that, uh,
Tunchin, which was a side-mounted air base, we
were, uh, had a rocket attack at one time. It was
quite extensive. It was the first time we'd ever
used rockets that crashed up in Chubb, you know, up
until I had the border attacks. That was a lot of
good,
a lot of, you know, concern about that because that
was the first indication that the enemy had been
successful in moving that type of weapon that far
south all the way down. Like I said, they didn't
have the air support. They didn't fly that stuff,
and they had the buggy like that stuff down. I mean,
you know, trying to do it at night. I mean, public
darkness, and obviously, you know, obviously
when they... They
were hoaching the trail and so when, on that
particular attack, when it was all said and done
and analyzed and that they were hitting us with
rockets, there was a lot of concern that they would
be an awful, awful successful in their efforts to
do what they, to move within the country pretty
much at their own will. Was that attack a
surprise? Oh yeah, it was that night. Well, it
wasn't a surprise. You didn't know it was coming?
Right, no. You know, it was just normal. You know,
it started when I was in Rockington. I mean, there
were several places that were like that night. It
was like that night. It hit fairly regularly and
all this. July was the playing days for that one
time. It hit. The camera, they never got hit while I
was there, particularly when I got hit by camera,
mainly because of its geographical location. It
was a pretty secure base, it was like, you know, so
it got stuck out, didn't have very good access. It
was pretty well protected. That's the base that
President Johnson went to.